it's easy and it's important to know how
to mow the lawn correctly in fact it's
your first line of defense against weeds
pests and lawn disease while you may
think that you're just cutting the grass
you're actually creating a healthy
environment for lawn growth every time
you mow your lawn correctly first a few
words about mowing safely every piece of
outdoor power equipment comes with an
operator's manual refer to this manual
before you use your equipment to make
sure you're operating it correctly and
safely never start any outdoor power
equipment in a garage shed or other
building also be cautious when adding
fuel only add fuel when the MOR is
turned off and cool and only do this
outdoors before you start your mower
remove any potential hazards such as
toys branches and debris from your yard
also keep children and pets out of the
mowing area and under the watchful care
of a responsible adult
other than the operator never allow a
child to ride on a riding more or walk
alongside with you even with the blades
shut off they may fall off and be
seriously injured or interfere with safe
machine operation children who have been
given rides in the past may suddenly
appear in the mowing area for another
ride for this reason use extreme care
when approaching blind corners shrubs
trees or other objects that may block
your view of a child
be alert and turn off the engine if a
child enters the mowing area in general
never allow a child under the age of 16
to operate any type of outdoor power
equipment wear appropriate clothing when
you mow long pants and sturdy shoes
never sandals or tennis shoes work
gloves and safety glasses are
recommended remember to only mow when
you have enough daylight and don't mow
when the lawn is wet for more lawnmower
safety please visit our lawn mower
safety tutorial if you're using the
mower for the first time be sure to
check the oil and add it if needed many
new mowers are shipped without oil in
them and running a more without oil will
severely damage the engine most walk
behind mowers require priming and
choking to start
engine this provides the right mixture
of fuel and air for combustion when you
pull the starter cord refer to your
operators manual for instructions on how
to prime and choke your more a new more
and more that is tuned up each year
should start quickly if it takes many
poles to start your mower review the
starting procedure in your operator's
manual
stale gas is the number one reason a
moor won't start
you can keep your gas fresh by adding a
fuel freshener to the gas tank or by
using a fresh start gas cap which
automatically drips freshener into the
fuel to keep your mower running right
and starting quickly be sure to tune up
the engine once a year you can learn
more about doing a tune-up at yard
smarts calm when you mow your lawn
follow the one-third rule cut only one
third of the length of grass blade and
anyone mowing if your lawn is three
inches tall this means you'll only want
to cut off one inch if your lawn has
gotten very long maybe you were on
vacation or it's been raining for days
you may have to mow twice within a few
days cutting no more than one-third the
length of the grass each time you can
easily adjust your mower deck so that it
only cuts the amount of grass you want
to cut be careful that you don't scalp
your lawn
scalping means cutting the grass too
short some people mistakenly do this
thinking they will have to then cut the
grass less often but scalping actually
injures and stresses your lawn making it
easier for pests and disease to take
hold
change your mowing direction from week
to week if you cut the lawn from north
to south
last week mow east to west this week
this helps you achieve and even cut and
prevents wheel ruts from forming finally
always be sure that your mower blade is
sharp a dull blade tears the grass
rather than cutting it cleanly and
damaged grass blades are always more
susceptible to pests and lawn disease
the safest and easiest way to ensure a
sharp blade on the moor is have a
professional sharpen it at least once a
year